###This code book describes the raw data and transformations performed on it to clean it up and bring it into a tidy data set###  

###Raw data:###
The raw data has been generated by experiments carried out by a group of 30 volunteers. Each person performed six activities (WALKING, WALKING_UPSTAIRS, WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS, SITTING, STANDING, LAYING) wearing a smartphone on the waist. Using its embedded accelerometer and gyroscope, various measurements have been captured. The obtained dataset has been randomly partitioned into two sets, where 70% of the volunteers was selected for generating the training data and 30% the test data. 

###The raw dataset included the following files:###
- 'features.txt': List of all measurements.
- 'activity_labels.txt': Links the class labels with their activity name.
- 'train/X_train.txt': Training set.
- 'train/y_train.txt': Training labels.
- 'train/subject_train.txt': Each row identifies the subject who performed the activity for each window sample. Its range is from 1 to 30. 
- 'test/X_test.txt': Test set.
- 'test/y_test.txt': Test labels.
- 'test/subject_test.txt': Each row identifies the subject who performed the activity for each window sample. Its range is from 1 to 30. 

###The following processing steps have been performed by running run_analysis.R on the raw datasets:###

1. Merging the training and the test sets to create one data set:
  + Read in 3 test files and combine them into one test data frame
  + Read in 3 train files and combine them into one train data frame
  + Merge train and test data frames into one combined data frame

2. Extracting only the measurements on the mean and standard deviation for each measurement.
  + Read in the header labels from a "features.txt" file
  + Assign the labels just read to the combined data frame (train+test) from step 1
     the combined data frame has 2 extra last columns on top of what's in the features file:
     ActivityCode & Subject originating from y_xxx.txt and subject_xxx.txt files correspondingly
  + Keep only columns containing "-mean()" and "-std()" in their name
     also keep ActvityCode and Subject columns - they will be used for grouping later
     Discard all other columns

3. Using descriptive activity names to name the activities in the data set

  + Read in activity labels file containing a map between activity code and the activity label
  + Merge the activity labels into the combined dataset 
     this operation results in the ActivityLabel column added to the combined dataset
     with values corresponding to the ActivityCode column
     ActivityCode column is then removed as it's no longer required

4. Appropriately labeling the data set with descriptive variable names

  + Replace all the shorthands in patterns vector with a corresponding value in replacements vector
     all words in the header are capitalized for better readability (matter of personal preference)
     dashes or brackets are removed as well

5. From the data set in step 4, creating a second, independent tidy data set with the average 
   of each variable for each activity and each subject.

  + Group the data in the combined data frame by subject & activity and calculate mean value for
     all the columns in every such group and then write out the aggregated data frame to a file

###Tidy Dataset:###
The resulting tidy dataset is stored in tidy_set.txt file. It contains 180 records corresponding to 6 types of activities performed by 30 people with each individual record representing an average value across all 66 measurements produced by 1 person for 1 particular activity